<doc id="4144041" url="https://en.wikisource.org/wiki?curid=4144041" title="Page:The complete poetical works and letters of John Keats, 1899.djvu/279">
Page:The complete poetical works and letters of John Keats, 1899.djvu/279

⁠And O, and O
⁠The daisies blow
And the primroses are waken'd,
⁠And the violets white
⁠Sit in silver plight,
And the green bud 's as long as the spike end.
⁠Then who would go
⁠Into dark Soho,
And chatter with dack'd hair'd critics,
⁠When he can stay
⁠For the new-mown hay,
And startle the dappled Prickets?


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immediately after the preceding, Keats adds: 'I know not if this rhyming fit has done anything—it will be safe with you if worthy to put among my Lyrics. Here 's some doggrel for you,' and these four stanzas follow.

Where be ye going, you Devon Maid?
⁠And what have ye there in the Basket?
Ye tight little fairy just fresh from the dairy,
⁠Will ye give me some cream if I ask it?
I love your Meads, and I love your flowers,
⁠And I love your junkets mainly,
But 'hind the door I love kissing more,
⁠O look not so disdainly.
I love your hills, and I love your dales,
⁠And I love your flocks a-bleating—
But O, on the heather to lie together,
⁠With both our hearts a-beating!
I 'll put your Basket all safe in a nook,
⁠Your shawl I hang up on the willow,
And we will sigh in the daisy's eye
⁠And kiss on a grass green pillow.


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is dated 'Foot of Helvellyn, June 27,' 1818, and was sent, as something overlooked, to his brother and sister, September 18, 1819. 'I wrote it in a great hurry which you will see. Indeed I would not copy it if I thought it would ever be seen by any but yourselves.'

Give me your patience, sister, while I frame
Exact in capitals your golden name;
Or sue the fair Apollo and he will
Rouse from his heavy slumber and instill
Great love in me for thee and Poesy.
Imagine not that greatest mastery
And kingdom over all the Realms of verse,
Nears more to heaven in aught, than when we nurse
And surety give to love and Brotherhood.
Anthropophagi in Othello's mood;
Ulysses storm'd and his enchanted belt
Glow with the Muse, but they are never felt
Unbosom'd so and so eternal made,
Such tender incense in their laurel shade
To all the regent sisters of the Nine
As this poor offering to you, sister mine.
Kind sister! ay, this third name says you are;
Enchanted has it been the Lord knows where;
And may it taste to you like good old wine,
Take you to real happiness and give
Sons, daughters and a home like honied hive.


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sent in a letter to Fanny Keats, written from Auchencairn, July 2, 1818. 'We are in the midst of Meg Merrilies country of whom I suppose you have heard.' Fanny Keats was a girl of fifteen at this time.

Old Meg she was a Gipsy,
⁠And liv'd upon the Moors:
Her bed it was the brown heath turf,
⁠And her house was out of doors.
Her apples were swart blackberries,
⁠Her currants pods o' broom;
Her wine was dew of the wild white rose,
⁠Her book a churchyard tomb.
Her Brothers were the craggy hills,
⁠Her Sisters larchen trees—
Alone with her great family
⁠She liv'd as she did please.
No breakfast had she many a morn,
⁠No dinner many a noon,
And 'stead of supper she would stare
⁠Full hard against the Moon.
But every morn of woodbine fresh
⁠She made her garlanding,
And every night the dark glen Yew
⁠She wove, and she would sing.
And with her fingers old and brown
⁠She plaited Mats o' Rushes,

</doc>
