<doc id="2842007" url="https://en.wikisource.org/wiki?curid=2842007" title="Page:Notes and Queries - Series 12 - Volume 4.djvu/257">
Page:Notes and Queries - Series 12 - Volume 4.djvu/257

i2s.iv. SEPT., i9i8.] NOTES AND QUERIES. 
251 
"BURNT CHAMPAGNE" (12 S. iv. 217). 
I can only make vague alternative sug- 
gestions to explain this. It may have been 
mulled champagne (still wine, not sparkling 
champagne) or something like " cram- 
pampuli," which is made from burnt rum, 
as I saw it prepared and consumed it in 
Vienna many years ago. Lump sugar is 
placed in a teacup : a good dose of rum is 
poured on the sugar and set alight. When 
the flame has died away, the tea is poured 
into the cup, with or without milk or with 
lemon juice. Of course, champagne brandy 
can only be used not wina, which could no 
more be set on fire than the Thames. 
L. L. K. 
Burnt brandy (fin champagne), un- 
doubtedly ! May I give a recipe ? 
In a kettle filled two-thirds with water 
put an apple, gouged out with a spoon, 
i.i., no knife must touch it ; a handful of 
muscatels, and four teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
which must not be stirred/ Boil. Add one- 
third" of brandy (or rum) to taste. Again 
boil. Take off the lid of the kettle, set 
alight the spirit, and replace the lid. Just 
reboil, and then serve. F. LAMBARDE. 
B.E.F., France. 
"Burnt wine" is scalded or fire-heated. 
I did not know that champagne was ever so 
maltreated. ST. S WITHIN. 
HERALDIC : CAPTOR AND HIS CAPTIVE'S 
ARMS (12 S. iv. 188). R. S. B.'s scepticism 
is quite justified. No case of the applica- 
tion of this " principle 
has been noted. 
D. L. G. 
SHIELD DIVIDED QUARTERLY (12 S. 
iv. 188). There seems to be no way of 
distinguishing the two cases. Quarterly 
shields with a charge in each quarter are 
very rare in pre-Tudor heraldry. 
D. L. G. 
" BOLD INFIDELITY ! TURN PALE AND 
DIE" (12 S. iv. 102, 172). Perhaps the 
querist, owing to a large number of answers 
received privately, may be his own replier 
for the benefit of others. Three persons 
have been given as author : S. T. Coleridge, 
the Rev. T. S. Grimshaw, and the Rev. 
Robert Robinson. Coleridge is out of it, as 
he was born (1772) after it occurs as an 
epitaph. Grimshaw' s dates are wanting ; 
while Robinson died in 1790. I have ob- 
tained copies of the epitaph from dated 
gravestones in the following churchyards or 
cutta (1787) ; Bunhill Fields (1798) ; Allen- 
dale, Northumberland (1807) ; Crambe, 
Yorks (1836) ; and Ispytty Cynfyn, Mont- 
gomery (1848). I have also copies from 
gravestones at Brasted (Kent), Huntingdon 
(St. Ives), Ripon Cathedral, and Townstall 
by Dartmouth ; but I know not the dates. 
Can any reader supply the above missing 
dates, or give names of other places where 
the epitaph occurs and their dates ? When 
was the Rev. T. S. Grimshaw born, and 
when did he die ? J. W. FAWCETT. 
Consett, co. Durham. 
fMr. E. B. Suffling in his ' Epitaphia ' says on 
p. 194 that Mr. Grimshaw's children died between 
1813 and 1818, while he was Vicar of Biddenham. 
Beds. Hia claim is therefore disproved.., 
WILLIAM STOKES (12 S. iv. 134). The 
grave of Wm. Stokes is in Hammersmith 
Cemetery. It is situated about halfway up 
the main road through the cemetery from 
Hammersmith, on the left-hand side. Un- 
fortunately, his name is not recorded on the 
memorial which marks the spot ; but he 
was interred on Sept. 7, 1911, aged 75, 
When Mrs. Stokes died her husband erected 
a tombstone to her memory. It contains the 
following inscription in black lettering on a 
green paper ground, covered with glass : 
In memory of Amelia Mary Stokes, 
The highly gifted, sympathetic, and beloved wife of 
William Stokes. 
Bom 3rd April, 1830. Married 12th April, 1864- 
Died 28th February, 1900. 
Mnemonical Acrostic Epitaph. 
A smile, through me, lights up the gloomy face, 
Hy mission mirthfulness, which all may trace, 
Encouragement to hope, to strive, succeed, , 
Lived in my life, for all who help might need- 
I found the world delightful, wondrous, fair, 
And thought of Heaven, and joy made perfect 
there. 
My memory methodized, matured my mind, 
Association's aid for memory find, 
Repeat not vainly ret on mental sight, 
You'll gain in power you'll secure delight. 
Shall past successes in your memory die ? 
Think of good work determined to outvie ; 
Oft let remembrance stimulate your brain, 
Kindle kind thought, and make a loss a gain, 
End needless grief no more have weeping eyes, 
Say, sadness go enough we know deep sighs ! 
William Stokes. 
The private grave of William Stokes, Hammer- 
smith, W. Late of the Boyal Colosseum, the 
Boyal Polytechnic Institution, &amp;c. 
I remember hearing Prof. Stokes lecture 
at the Polytechnic Institution some time in 
the sixties, and I once possessed a book of 
his entitled ' Stokes on Memory.' I am 
informed that he used to lecture every day 
cemeteries : Hauxton, Cambs (1770) ; Cal- | on memory at the old Polytechnic in Regent

</doc>
