<doc id="2871692" url="https://en.wikisource.org/wiki?curid=2871692" title="Page:Notes and Queries - Series 9 - Volume 2.djvu/394">
Page:Notes and Queries - Series 9 - Volume 2.djvu/394

386 
NOTES AND QUERIES. [9 s. n. NOV. 12, 
case on record. A mule belonging to a potter 
in the above state gave birth to a male foal 
on the day after its return from the Tirah Field 
Force. ' Parturition occurred on August 6 during 
the night, and on information being given to the 
Prime Minister of tt\p State, Sirdar Bhagat Singh, 
C.I.E., he at once went to see it early the followm 
morning. The greatest excitement has been causei 
in the town of Kapurthala by this extraordinary 
occurrence, and the pundits are all at a loss to know 
what to think about it. They say that such an 
event has never been known before, and the Hindu 
shastras say that whenever a mule becomes preg- 
nant, it must die before giving birth to the young. 
Large crowds go daily to see the mother and foal, 
and the pundits are consulting the stars and shas- 
tras as to what is portended by the event." 
Two photographs one of the marvellous 
creature which has caused so much bewilder- 
ment, and another of its mother are given 
in the Field. That mules, in very rare 
instances, do bear young has sometimes been 
asserted, but till now absolute proof of the 
fact was wanting. T. R. E. N. T. 
TRAFALGAR DAY, 1898. The recent demon- 
stration in Trafalgar Square with regard to 
the Nelson monument recalls Lord Byron's 
lines, written eighty years ago, which appear 
singularly appropriate to the present time : 
Nelson was once Britannia's god of war, 
And still should be so, but the tide is turn'd ; 
There 's no more to be said of Trafalgar, 
'Tis with our hero quietly inurn'd ; 
Because the army 's grown more popular, 
At which the navy people are concern'd ; 
Besides, the prince [Regent] is all for the land- 
service, 
Forgetting Duncan, Nelson, Howe, and Jervis. 
' Don Juan,' canto i. iv. (1818). 
JOHN HEBB. 
Canonbury Mansions, N. 
ROUNDS OR RUNGS. Hardly any novelist 
nowadays writes a book without referring to 
the climbing of the metaphorical ladder of 
fame, &amp;c. ; and certainly nineteen out of 
twenty use the inelegant term rungs. My 
old schoolmaster (the late Dr. Blain, of the 
Royal Academical Institution, Belfast), who 
made a life study of inaccurate expressions, 
&lt;fce., considered rungs an excessive vulgarity 
quite as bad as using one's knife for a fork 
at the dinner-table (his own parallel illustra- 
tion). The only author of fiction I recollect 
to have noticed employing the nicer term of 
rounds is Mr. David Christie Murray. 
J. S. M. T. 
THE ARCHDUKE OP AUSTRIA IN SHAK- 
SPEARE'S 'KiNG JOHN.' This character is a 
blending of two historical personages 
Leopold, Archduke of Austria, who kept 
Richard I. in captivity when on his way 
back from Palestine, and Vidomar, Viscount 
of Limoges, in besieging whose castle of 
Chalus Richard lost his life. In this Shake- 
speare copies the old play ' The Troublesome 
Raigne of John' (1591), the framework of 
which he borrowed so far as suited his own 
design. But the source of the confusion is 
much earlier, and may be traced to the 
black-letter ballad 'Kynge Rycharde cuer du 
lyon,' printed by Wynkyn de Worde. On 
f. 99 occur these lines : 
Thus kynge Rycharde y' doughty man 
Peas made with the Soudan 
And syth he came I vnderstonde 
The waye towarde englonde 
And through treason was shotte alas 
At castell gaylarde there he was 
The duke of estryche in the castell 
With his boost was dyght full well. 
The story goes on to say that a spy, seeing 
Richard unarmed, shot at him and wounded 
him. I dp not think this has been noticed 
by the editors of the play. It is possibly to 
a similar source that we owe the killing of 
Julius Caesar in the Capitol, which has not 
been traced back further than Chaucer. 
PERCY SIMPSON. 
EPITAPH. 
C lose in the bosome of this Mournful Tomb 
H urry d from Earth to his Eternal home 
A n early Trophy of Death 8 Conquering Power 
R eposing waits for Natures Last great hour 
L ire Like a Morning Vision fled away 
E re we Could Perfectly Percieue the day 
S o soon we Lose what Long we d haue to stay 
F ate took no pity on his tender years 
R egarded not his Parents pious tears 
A 11 their vain greef the Victim Could not saue 
N or keep their Boy from the Devouring Graue 
C rown d with his Natiue Innocence he fell 
K ings Crownd with Laurel Sildom dye so well 
L et Age and youth from hence this maxim know 
I f Heaven Command 9 the best are forc'd to go 
N othing that 8 good is permanent below. 
The above epitaph to the memory of 
Charles Francklin, who died 10 March, 1704, 
is engraved upon a simple stone on the south 
wall of the nave of Westwood Church, near 
Bradford-on-Avon. 
ALBERT HARTSHORNE. 
WE must request correspondents desiring infor- 
mation on family matters of only private interest 
to affix their names and addresses to their queries, 
in order that the answers may be addressed to 
them direct. 
'THE FARMER OF ST. IVES.' Who is the 
author of a spirited copy of verses so entitled ? 
It consists of fourteen stanzas fifteen if we 
onclusion and it is stated to have been

</doc>
